# Utils
- `docker compose down -v` shuts down containers, networks, and with `-v` volumes.
- `docker compose up -d --build` builds and starts containers, networks, and volumes

# Docker-compose.yml
This is how i create two containers that comunicate with each other with a docker-compose.yml
``` yml
version: "3.9"
services:
	db:
		build:
		context: ./mysql
		dockerfile: Dockerfile
		env_file:
		- .env
		ports:
		- "3306:3306"
		volumes:
		- db_data:/var/lib/mysql
		command: >
		sh -c "envsubst < /docker-entrypoint-initdb.d/init.sql.template > /docker-entrypoint-initdb.d/init.sql &&
exec docker-entrypoint.sh mysqld"
	app:
		build:
		context: ./app
		dockerfile: Dockerfile
		env_file:
		- .env
		ports:
		- "5000:5000"
		depends_on:
		- db
volumes:
db_data:
```

As I can read in this file generated by chatgpt, I notice there is a `version` definition with `3.9` since its the latest according to this [website](https://docs.docker.com/reference/compose-file/version-and-name/). Also if the version you include is obsolete you get a warning, so its ok to use this one.

Then i notice the `services` property, where you basically define the different Dockerfiles you'll run. Also, the name you put inside the service attribute is the **hostname**, that's an important consideration.

It's important to not that in the `db`service, the `volume` attribute is important, since thanks to it, our data is saved even though we restart the containers with `docker compose down` (which removes the containers, and networks).
Also I want to point that the `db_data:/var/lib/mysql` is just a volume, a shared folder named db_data that points to /var/lib/mysql, key point here, is to notice that this docker container specifically stores its data here, that leads me to think that its also important to understand the container you are working with, not only the docker CLI and its file's syntax.

Also, in this context, inside `db` (mysql container) attribute, we have a lot of attributes, I'll just focus on the `command` attribute since I think is the least intuitive attribute:
``` bash
sh -c "envsubst < /docker-entrypoint-initdb.d/init.sql.template > /docker-entrypoint-initdb.d/init.sql &&
exec docker-entrypoint.sh mysqld"
```
This command basically sends the content of `init.sql.template`to `envsubst`, this previous mentioned instruction basically replaces the environment variables placeholders of the sql template with the real values of the current env. Then sends it to a file inside the container than later on, gets executed. This script basically creates the initial database so the application actually works.